# Let Them Eat Cake

## Description and end product
This adventure revolves around gathering resources to survive in a time of violent political and social turmoil with a goal to finish the game with a slice of cake. Admittedly, this game is centered around the life of a French peasant during the 17th century, although not explicitly mentioned. The title is a reference to the infamous quote, supposedly said by Queen Marie Antoinette in a time of widespread bread shortages and revolution. At the beginning of the game, the player is mostly unaware of the game’s function, with the importance of energy being the sole thing revealed. The player is instructed that they have an energy bar, and a main goal is to not let their energy drop to 0.

After the intro, a main screen is shown that only allows the player to chop wood, and  nothing else. In terms of freedom and agency, the beginning of this game seems rather shallow to most people and it would be reasonable to assume that many players would quit immediately after seeing the simplicity of the game. However, the reason behind the limited ability is actually based on the 'snowball' aspect of a tycoon game. When faced with a large amount of entries the moment they are placed into a game, the player is often demotivated for two reasons; firstly, being the fact that many of these options are inaccessible because it requires a greater amount of money and effort to proceed with the task, and as a result, not worthwhile for a beginner because of the unknown benefits and disadvantages, and secondly, the realization of a beginner player that the extent of the game has already been explored. When shown every aspect of the main menu at the start, the player has basically developed a full idea of what the game will be like. There may be surprises here and there from miracles, disasters, or interesting death sequences, but in essence, there is nothing the player can unlock. The sentiment of accomplishment cannot be created because regardless of whether or not the player decides to play the game, all the options are revealed already.

This is why the basis starts off very bare and meaningless, but as the player gains experience over time, the story progresses. It allows for a noteworthy and attractive tycoon game, because not only do the amount of resources and rewards exponentially go up, but also, the ability and agency to explore more of the game grows at an increasing rate. Throughout this journey, the player will encounter resources such as wood, coal, iron, and etc., and will be encouraged, not forced, to collect these resources with the mindset of investigating more of the game. By gathering these resources, however, the player will see that their energy level begins slowly decreasing. This will be resolved by introducing food resources, such as wheat, bread, raw fish, and cooked fish, leading to the player discerning the necessity to constantly have a reliable source of energy revival. Miracles and disasters will also be a big part of the game, with certain boosts available like raising the energy bar maximum, or difficulty through loss of resources. Finally, the nature of the title will be incorporated in the ending of the game, hinted by the foreshadowing in the introduction. There will be two definite results, one in which you win, and one in which you lose. The winning factor may include achieving a slice of cake in a miracle or reaching an upper limit in the amount of a certain resource. On the other hand, a losing factor will probably involve the total loss of energy or a disaster which causes the player to experience turmoil.

## Functionality
This program will utilize the syntax and structure of the coding language C++ that have been taught in CS 10. It will involve the use of variables and basic input/output streams, along with the use of libraries and headers. To manage variables and constants, operators will be used in the code, including arithmetic, assignment, comparison, and logical operators. Loops and branchings will be employed in functions within the game to ensure efficiency and capability, especially the do-while loop in the main loop. If-else statements, for loops, while loops, and switch-case loops may also exist in the code. Type trapping will be an essential part of the input in this game, forbidding the use of characters other than numbers when the variable is an integer.

## Indicators of success
The main social indicator of success for me is related to the reaction of the audience playing this game. If players are able to finish the game with increased appreciation and regard, along with a willingness to play again, this game has succeeded. On the other hand, a functional indicator of success for this game involves my ability as a programmer to code this according to my level of skill. The expectation is to reach 800 lines of code, using at least 10 different coding techniques that have been taught this semester.

## Evaluation
Analyzing the final product, I can conclude that the project is fully functional, matching up closely with the proposal. The code works as written, with commands such as input/output, loops, and operators performing as intended. Error traps and variable maximums and minimums have been set in place to allow for smooth and consistent game flow. Building and running the code on Code::Blocks results in no errors and no warnings, meaning a proficient standard of syntax has been achieved. The timeline was used to develop a game at a consistent rate, and was followed closely to guarantee timely submission.

Previously, I had listed one of the two criteria for success based on the reaction of test players who play the game. The social aspect had been marked through playtesting - asking family and other students to test the game for feedback. Two types of tests were conducted: one which involved a participant which was fully aware of the game’s operations, while the other playtester had little to no knowledge of the game. Players that completed the game with knowledge of its internal workings remarked that the game was “smooth and captivating”, with someone honing in on the “enjoyable rpg component of the game”. A player also said that “the code inside the game correlates exactly with what is shown on screen, making it very easy and compelling to follow”, hinting at both the functionality and attractiveness of the game. On the other hand, I convinced a cousin to test the game with no prior knowledge of its capability or functions. Although it took him a couple tries to finish the game, he stated after completion that “it was disappointingly subtle during the beginning of the game, but as it went on, I found that there were so many resources to be unlocked”. He very clearly announced that he would be willing to play again, checking off another box of repetitive playability, marking social success.

The other criteria for success in the project proposal was the functional aspect; in this case, achieving a specific amount of code. This game ended up requiring over 900 lines of code, far surpassing the original goal of 800 lines. Although many of these lines were gameplay narratives, all of them required proficient coding ability to write. More than 10 unique C++ techniques were used to construct the game, e.g., for loop, do-while loop, switch-case, while loop, delay mechanism, random number generator, cin.good(), boolean operations, if statements, and if-else statements.

Some limitations I encountered while developing the program was the need for an alternative way to clear the screen and pause the code. Originally, I had intended to use system(“cls”) and system(“pause”); however, after realizing the inflexibility of these commands due to them being platform dependent required me to find a different way to achieve the same result. I ended up using an output of the end line command in a for loop to wipe the screen and replace it with blank lines, along with an unused cin command which would require the user to enter a value before continuing.

There are many additional features this game could include, ranging from opportunities in the game to trade a certain resource for another, to an approach where the player gets to decide many of the results in miracles and disasters. With enough time, these additions could be easily incorporated, but due to the small timespan of this term course, I had to stick to a more basic game foundation. More resources would allow the game even greater flexibility and agency, while a more detailed storyline would encourage players to be absorbed into the game atmosphere.

I am very proud of the work I had accomplished within this project, as it was an opportunity for me to demonstrate my computer science skills to a standard of excellence that I strive for. The game allowed me to go above and beyond by incorporating the lessons taught in Computer Science 1, as well as techniques I had discovered through research and inference. Looking ahead, I intend to continue improving my knowledge in computer science with a new-found passion, through future projects and learning new coding languages.
